High there over the course of the next several sections you're going to learn an incredible amount about
a popular javascript library called D-3.
I love building visualizations with D-3 and helping other people learn it.
But before we get into the details I thought it would be good to showcase just a few examples of what
D-3 can do.
First a little background D-3 is a javascript library that is used to make data easier to read and understand
through compelling visuals.
One of the key developers of the project is Mike Bostock who had a stint as a graphics editor for The
New York Times.
If you ever played around with any of the interactive articles from The New York Times Web site it's
likely that there was an D-3 at work under the hood For example here's a cool story they ran in 2015
that asks readers to predict the relationship between the percentage of children who go to college versus
their parents income percentile.
After making a guess.
The article digs into the numbers a bit and also shows you how other readers guessed I won't spoil their
results for you.
Feel free to check it out on your own if you're interested.
Cool examples of B-3 about on the D-3 Web site the examples page is fairly exhaustive and they all do
something different.
Scrolling through this page should give you a sense for the scale of what's possible with the three.
If you're looking for even more examples a Web site called the putting offers up visual essays every
week there's a lot of great material here.
For instance here's a visualization that displays the top grossing films of the past 50 years against
a timeline of historical events for the United States.
Here's another one that visualizes data from characters on the TV show The Office there were visualisations
for each character's share of dialogue as well as sentiment analysis which shows how negative each character
is based on what he or she says.
I've built quite a few visualizations of my own too.
Here's one quick example.
Here's a project that uses United States Census data to visualize how popular different names are over
time.
For example my name peaked in popularity right around the time I was born.
By default the chart gives you data nationally but you can also click on a state to see the trend for
that name.
In only that state.
Here's how my name's popularity has changed in a few different states.
Here's an example showcasing the type of thing you'll be able to bill by the end of these three sections.
Here I've got a dashboard with several different visualizations all regarding carbon dioxide emissions
by country and by year.
On the left I've got a world map with countries colored by how much CO2 they produced for that year.
The closer to green the less the pollution the closer to red or black the worse the pollution.
I can change the year from the header and I can toggle between emissions and emissions per capita.
I can also mouse over a country to see the data being visualize on the right.
I've got the same information visualized as a pie chart.
This lets me look at emissions by country as a fraction of total emissions if I mouse over one of the
wedges in this chart.
I can see the same information as before but I can also see how much each country polluted as a percentage
of total CO2 emissions for that year.
Finally I can also click on a country to see that countries trends over time with the bar chart on the
right.
For example China's CO2 emissions skyrocketed between 1990 and 2011 emissions per capita increased dramatically
as well though the US's emissions per capita were higher by a factor of nearly 2.5 than 2011.
I hope I've shown you enough D-3 to peak your interest.
Now that you've seen what the theory can do let's learn how to use it in the next video.
We'll get started with D-3 basics.
I'm looking forward to it and I hope you are too.
I'll see you in the next video.